Button Usage Design Guidelines (#27)
primer/design: pages/design/ui-patterns/button-usage.mdx

| Secondary | ![btn](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52498774-86e4c200-2b8e-11e9-953b-e0e7a70493ea.png) | For secondary or less important actions | Should be considered as the go-to style when designing new buttons | Octicons, Size, Full-width, Button-Groups, Counter |
| Outline | ![btn-outline](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52498769-864c2b80-2b8e-11e9-984a-d5b88c846b74.png) | For general actions, navigation, and filtering | Should be used independently and not in conjunction with other button styles | Octicons, Size, Full-width, Button-Groups, Counter |
| Primary | ![btn-primary](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52498773-86e4c200-2b8e-11e9-804f-146d721d5191.png) | To indicate the primary action on a page or view | Avoid using multiple primary buttons in a single view | Octicons(limited), Size, Full-width |
| Danger | ![btn-danger](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52498772-864c2b80-2b8e-11e9-8eeb-bef8729c1fd1.png) | To indicate potentially dangerous, or destructive actions | Only use this button when necessary | Octicons(limited), Size, Full-width|

## Usage

### Use Sentence Case

> At GitHub, our buttons are all sentence-cased. Please refrain from deviating from this standard.

Reviewer: I don't think you need this sentence, I think the do/dont images make it clear

```suggestion

```

<Flex>
  <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='green.5' mb="2">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501276-d3330080-2b94-11e9-954e-38c0f09f8ca1.png"/>
    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='green.5'>Do:</Text> Use sentence case 
  </Box>
  <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='red.5' mb="2">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501272-d3330080-2b94-11e9-8829-7d12aae36ba1.png"/>
    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='red.5'>Don't:</Text> Use all-caps or other text formats
  </Box> 
</Flex>

### Keep Button Text Concise

> When designing buttons, keep the text as short but descriptive as possible. Buttons are to be understood by their type and text; if further clarity is required, consider adding an octicon or adding a text description. Never wrap text within buttons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When designing buttons, keep the text as short but descriptive as possible. Buttons are to be understood by their type and text; if further clarity is required, consider adding an octicon or adding a text description. 
```

I think you can omit the last sentence, I feel like this is an understood best-practice across the board (even outside of GitHub)

### Adaptable Full-Width 

> In certain scenarios, it may be appropriate for a button’s width to be extended to fill their parent container. Use this style sparingly, but some general, appropriate use-cases include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain scenarios, it may make sense to use full-width buttons that extend to the width of their container. Use this style sparingly, but some appropriate use-cases include:
```

- Modals with a singular call-to-action
- Responsive behavior of buttons when scaled down

<Flex>
  <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='green.5' mb="2">

>       <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501273-d3330080-2b94-11e9-906c-27d9f745f0c5.png"/>

Reviewer: are these the right do/don't images for adaptable width?

    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='green.5'>Do:</Text> Keep text brief, specific, and descriptive
  </Box>
  <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='red.5' mb="2">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501274-d3330080-2b94-11e9-823d-61964966cc7b.png"/>
    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='red.5'>Don't:</Text> Use lengthy, wordy text and/or wrap it within the button
  </Box> 
</Flex>

### Text Descriptions

> In certain scenarios, buttons that perform very significant actions require accompanying text around them to let the user fully understand its intent. Use text labels sparingly, as buttons should generally be able to be understood on their own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain scenarios, buttons require supporting text to give the user more context. Use text labels sparingly, as buttons should generally be able to be understood on their own.
```

<Flex>
  <Box width='50%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='green.5' mb="2">

>       <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501400-1b522300-2b95-11e9-8c47-71af68cfaeec.png"/>

Reviewer: Should we add a 'don't' image here?

Author: agreed!

    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='green.5'>Do:</Text> Keep text brief, specific, and descriptive
  </Box> 
</Flex>

### Use Octicons to Clarify Actions
Use octicons in conjunction with buttons to clarify an action if text alone is not enough to explain its functionality. Octicons can also be used to signal an interaction, for example, the `triangle-down` octicon to open a dropdown.

> Octicons can be used to call attention to the button’s action and make it stand out through consistent usage. For example, GitHub products use the repo icon in a button and then repeat its use throughout the "new repo" flow - this repetition and continuity is helps people learn our visual language. 

Reviewer: I feel like this could be reworded. This isn't quite right, but maybe something like:

> In some cases, Octicons are used to create an identifiable visual indicator for a common action or paradigm. For example, the repo icon is used next to repo links, the New Repo button, and repeated in the New Repo flow. This repetition and continuity helps people learn and identify our visual language.

### Use Button Groups to Organize Similar Functionality  
Organize buttons together in button groups to show their similar functionality. Keep in mind that only default and outline buttons can be used as button groups. This modifier can also be used as a filtering pattern as well.

### Using Social Proof

> Counters can be added to add a numerical aid in appropriate scenarios. They should generally only be used with “small” buttons, and only be used where a it is providing valuable context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Counters can be added as a numerical aid in appropriate scenarios. They should generally only be used with “small” buttons, and only where they're providing valuable context.
```

## Hierarchy and Placement

### Use Size to Modify Button Hierarchy
Increase button size to bring prominence to buttons that have major impact. Decrease button size when space is limited and the action is of lesser significance. Use this modifier sparingly, as layouts should generally have only one large button. 

### Limit Primary Button Usage
Only use one primary button on the page, whenever possible, to indicate its emphasis relative to other actions. Primary buttons have  top priority in visual hierarchy, and using too many of them on a single view dilutes their effectiveness.

### Always Align Primary Buttons to the Outermost Edge 
When a secondary button is placed in conjunction with a primary button, the primary button should always be placed on the outermost alignment, or on top and extended full-width if stacked.

<Flex>
  <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='green.5' mb="2">

>       <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501537-6ff59e00-2b95-11e9-9bac-f105481b9e21.png"/>

Reviewer: might be helpful to add a 'don't' image here

    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='green.5'>Do:</Text> Follow this principle to align your buttons accordingly
  </Box> 
</Flex>

### Use Outline Buttons Independently
Outline buttons are mainly used for secondary actions such as filtering. Don't use in conjunction or place in close proximity of other button styles

## Support

### Requesting Feedback

> Buttons can be tricky to implement, and certain designs may test the bounds of our design guidelines in unique scenarios. If you have further questions or require clarity on implementation, please reach out to the [#design-systems](https://github.slack.com/messages/C0ZCGGGJ2) channel on Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have further questions or require clarity on implementation, please reach out to the [#design-systems](https://github.slack.com/messages/C0ZCGGGJ2) channel on Slack.
```

      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/52501400-1b522300-2b95-11e9-8c47-71af68cfaeec.png"/>
    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='green.5'>Do:</Text> Keep text brief, specific, and descriptive
  </Box> 
   <Box width='100%' mr='2'>
    <BorderBox border='1px solid' borderColor='red.5' mb="2">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24916540/53110379-cbfee180-3508-11e9-8762-04e3c8979afb.png"/>
    </BorderBox>
    <Text fontWeight='bold' color='red.5'>Don't:</Text> Use unnecesary, redundant text descriptions
  </Box> 
</Flex>

### Use Octicons to Clarify Actions
Use octicons in conjunction with buttons to clarify an action if text alone is not enough to explain its functionality. Octicons can also be used to signal an interaction, for example, the `triangle-down` octicon to open a dropdown.

In some cases, Octicons are used to create an identifiable visual indicator for a common action or paradigm. For example, the repo icon is used next to repo links, the new repo button, and repeated in the new repo flow. This repetition and continuity helps people learn and identify our visual language.

> ### Use Button Groups to Organize Similar Functionality  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use button groups to organize similar functionality
```

Organize buttons together in button groups to show their similar functionality. Keep in mind that only default and outline buttons can be used as button groups. This modifier can also be used as a filtering pattern as well.

> ### Using Social Proof

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using social proof
```

Counters can be added as numerical aid in appropriate scenarios. They should generally only be used with “small” buttons, and only be used where a it is providing valuable context.

## Hierarchy and Placement

### Use Size to Modify Button Hierarchy
Increase button size to bring prominence to buttons that have major impact. Decrease button size when space is limited and the action is of lesser significance. Use this modifier sparingly, as layouts should generally have only one large button. 

### Limit Primary Button Usage
Only use one primary button on the page, whenever possible, to indicate its emphasis relative to other actions. Primary buttons have  top priority in visual hierarchy, and using too many of them on a single view dilutes their effectiveness.

### Always Align Primary Buttons to the Outermost Edge 
When a secondary button is placed in conjunction with a primary button, the primary button should always be placed on the outermost alignment, or on top and extended full-width if stacked.

<Flex>

>   <Box width='100%' mr='2'>

Reviewer 2: I would advise against using the comment buttons as an example since the version you've shown here is no longer in production and incorrectly uses title case, not sentence case in the example. I would use the close pull request example with the primary and secondary layout:

<img width="396" alt="screenshot 2019-02-22 09 53 12" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/334891/53250140-cd0a4d00-3687-11e9-85d0-4b0ba2bd6027.png">
